Missable Item Walkthrough

This is not a full walkthrough; rather, it's a checklist to help you not miss anything missable. In addition to the below, be sure to check Mognet every time you see a Save Moogle. If you're looking for an in-depth guide to completing FFIX, click here.

    Moonstone #1: Won by impressing 100 nobles in the Sword Fight scene, then speaking to Queen Brahne as Steiner.
    Crash Site/Evil Forest: All treasures in these areas are missed once you leave (remember FFIX tracks treasure collection).
    Ice Cavern: Once you leave Dali, you can never return to the interior, and all remaining treasure there will have been missed.
    Autograph Key Item, Moogle Suit Key Item: Obtain from Lindblum Theater District before visiting the Tantalus Hideout.
    Master Hunter Key Item: Make sure Zidane, Freya, or Vivi wins the Festival of the Hunt.
    Javelin: Buy one in Lindblum's Weapon Shop before entering Cleyra.
    Stiltzkin's Shop #1: Buy from Stiltzkin (333 Gil) in Burmecia before the end of Disc 1.
    Silver Gloves (×4), Iron Helm (×3): Summit Station's shop is your last chance to buy them.
    Air Racket (×5): Treno's Weapon Shop on Disc 2 is the final opportunity to buy this (once you board the gargant you will not be able to get them again). You'll get a sixth one in a chest on Disc 3 (non-missable).
    Gargan Roo: Cannot be revisited after leaving.
    Emerald #1: As Freya in Cleyra, speak to the High Priest in the cathedral before going to the town entrance.
    Cleyra: Once you leave, you can never return, so any treasures missed here will be missed permanently.
    Stiltzkin's Shop #2: As Freya in Cleyra, visit the Inn in Cleyra and buy Stiltkin's deal (444 Gil) before going to the settlement entrance.
    Chain Mail (×15): Buy from Lindblum's Weapon Shop on Disc 2. Once you go to Dragon's Gate this is no longer available.
    Stiltzkin's Shop #3: Catch him in Fossil Roo (near the entrance) before you leave. He sells his package for 555 Gil.
    Fossil Roo: Once you take the final gargant, the area's inner portion can never again be accessed.
    Diamond #1: Grab from the kirkboat in Conde Petie. This is available until the end of Disc 3 but best to do it when you arrive.
    Stiltzkin's Shop #4: On Conde Petie Mountain Path near Suzuna, Stiltzkin peddles his latest for 666 Gil.
    Athlete Queen Key Item: As Vivi in Alexandria at the start of Disc 3 (before visiting the mini-theater) is your only chance to do Hippaul Racing and win the Athlete Queen Key Item.
    Stiltzkin's Shop #5: Before visiting the mini-theater, as Vivi go to the Steeple and buy Stiltzkin's latest special (777 Gil).
    Mini-Brahne Key Item, Mayor's Key Key Item: Get both from Dali during Disc 3 before playing the last round in the Card Tournament.
    Rebirth Ring #1: Win the Treno Card Tournament.
    Running Shoes #1: Be sure to fight Tantarian in Alexandria's Library before ascending Alexandria Castle's central tower.
    Mythril Sword (×5): Your last chance to obtain this is in Esto Gaza's Shop, before going to the Desert Palace.
    Stiltzkin's Shop #6, Emerald #2: In Oeilvert, before solving any puzzles, visit Stiltzkin in the room right of the entrance. His latest goodies run for 888 Gil.
    Namingway Card: Grab from the table in Desert Palace's quarters before leaving (it's possible anytime until the end of the disc, but just do this now).
    Before Shimmering Island: Before entering Shimmering Island, click here for a full summary of what you need to have done.
    Stiltzkin's Shop #7, Diamond #3: Before going to Bran Bal's Inn, buy the party pack from Stiltzkin for 2,222 Gil.
    Zorlin Shape (×9): Moorock's Mogshop in Pandemonium is your final opportunity to buy this weapon, which is weak but mainly used in Synthing. Once you cross the bridge in Pandemonium, you cannot return.
    Nero Brothers Sidequest: You must obtain at least 9 "checkpoints" to complete this quest (click here for more info). The last time you can start this and still be able to finish is shortly after defeating Tiamat.
    Genji Armor #2: Steal from Maliris in Memoria.
    Blood Sword #2: Steal from Tiamat in Memoria.
    Genji Helmet #2: Steal from Kraken in Memoria.
    Genji Gloves #2: Steal from Lich in Memoria.
    Excalibur II: Reach "Gate to Space" and defeat Lich in Memoria with less than 12 hours on the game clock.
    Duel Claws: Steal from Deathguise in Memoria.
    Running Shoes #4: Steal from Hades.
    Dark Matter #2+, Pumice Piece #3: Steal from the game's ultimate boss. It also has a decent chance to drop one or more (up to three) Dark Matter items. Once you fight it and win, these items are lost if you didn't get them.